Now to get started with GitHub Actions,
I wanna explore the key elements,
the key components or building blocks you must understand
when working with this GitHub Actions service or feature.
And of course, we'll also see all these things in action
in a couple of minutes.
But let's take a look at these elements in theory first.
And we got basically three main building blocks
you must know and understand
when working with GitHub Actions.
And that would be Workflows, Jobs, and Steps.
And workflows, Jobs, and Steps are related like this.
You have a code Repository on GitHub
that's important because this is a GitHub feature
and it is related to repositories on GitHub.
So you have such a Git Repository on GitHub
and typically you'll be storing some code in there,
but it could of course be any kind of project.
The important thing just is that workflows
are attached to those GitHub repositories.
You can add workflows to GitHub repositories
and you can add as many workflows as you want
to a given repository.
So this workflow thing is kind of the first thing you build
or you create when setting up an automation process
with GitHub Actions.
Now such a workflow then includes one or more jobs,
and that's the next important building block, jobs.
So we have workflows that belong to repositories
and then in those workflows we have jobs.
Now those jobs then contain one or more steps
that will be executed in the order
in which they're specified.
And these steps to define the actual things
that will be done.
Like for example, download the code in the first step,
install the dependencies in the second step,
and run automated tests in the third step.
That's what you could do with GitHub Actions
and with such a workflow that contains a job
with the appropriate steps.
And as mentioned,
you can have as many workflows as you want,
as many jobs per workflow as you want,
and as many steps in a job as you want.
So workflows, jobs, and steps are important.
Now let's take a closer look at these three
key building blocks though.
As mentioned, workflows are attached to GitHub repositories,
and they contain one or more jobs,
that's what I already mentioned.
Now what's important though
is that you build those workflows with those jobs
to set up some automated process that should be executed.
But of course, it should not be executed all the time,
but instead, with GitHub Actions, you assign so-called
triggers or events to your workflows.
These events define when a given workflow will be executed.
For example, you could add an event that requires
manual activation of a workflow,
but you could also add an event that triggers
and executes a workflow whenever a new commit is pushed
to a certain branch.
Now those jobs are then the things inside of the events
that contain the steps that will be executed.
Every job defines a so-called runner
which is simply the execution environment,
the machine and operating system that will be used
for executing these steps.
And with GitHub Actions, these runners can either be runners
that are predefined by GitHub,
they offer runners for Linux, Mac OS, and Windows,
but you could also configure your own runners,
but I'll get back to that later.
Now, these jobs then also define the steps
that will be executed in this runner environment,
so on that machine you specified.
And as mentioned before, you can have one or multiple jobs
in a given Workflow.
And if you have multiple jobs,
they run in parallel by default,
but you can also configure them to run in sequential order,
so one job after another.
You can also set up conditional jobs
which will not always run,
but which instead need a certain condition to be met.
Now the part where the actual work happens
or where you define what should be done, to be precise,
are the steps.
Steps belong to jobs, and a job can have one or more steps.
And a step is either a shell script,
a command in the command line that should be executed,
or an action, which is another important building block,
we'll take a closer look at later.
Basically, actions in the context of GitHub Action
are predefined scripts that perform a certain task
you could say.
And you can build your own actions if you need to
or use third party actions, but for simple tasks,
you can, as mentioned, also just execute a command
in the command line,
and you'll see all these things in action
throughout the course, of course.
Now a job must at least have one step,
typically, you'll have more than one step though,
and those steps are then executed in order,
they don't run in parallel, but instead, step after step,
and they can also be conditional.
Now that's the theory.
Let's now take a look at all these things in practice.